Generally, when we are talking about this two practices, duality, all this is generally
speaking about social practitioners, it is a very beginning practice. This time, thoughts
are disturbance. For the beginning times, thoughts are disturbing, it is stabilizing,
it is destabilizing the meditation and our practices. Therefore, we really don't need
to follow the thoughts while we are meditating. That is what we need to cut. But when we have
little bit of stabilizing meditation, then we should not see thought as enemy or thought
as obstacles. Thought is display. Thought is display, thought is always teaching, say,
the ornament of the rupa. Rupa, it is good, it is intelligence. Therefore, it is not something
that we have to avoid, nor cannot avoid. Thought is the wisdom, intelligence, ornament, and
that should not, even they say, don't block that, trying to stop that. But if we are grasping,
clinging on the thought, then we are creating the habit of evidence. Then it becomes disturbance.
That is the force we should really understand.
And then also we have to think, this practice, we have to think in a more practical way. We
have two things, meditation status and the post-meditation status. Meditation status,
that is the word we should not try to avoid the dualities. We should avoid the dualities,
we should, that is the technique we use in the meditation status. During the meditation,
any of those public activities, attachment, grasp, we really let release that immediately,
trying to relax in the natural state. So thought does not become the duality, but thought
does become the ornament, and that means it let us come, let it dissolve, and the duality
is not manipulating of the display in the movement of that. Then it is called ornament
of the rupas. That's the word we should make. But then in the post-meditation, of course,
we should make plans. We should take this and that, but we need to do for us. We should
not do what we can. Definitely we have to do. We have to do, we should not avoid this.
So all these, our plans, this should take care of the mundane world in the post-meditation
or at least anything that records very practically and very reasonably and without too much
emotions.
That's the technique. And then the presence, like the body, all this devotion, joy, everything.
Those must be connected, connected during the post-meditation or as immediately, then
apply our mundane world and show some review of the strength of the practice in meditation
state, through that in the post-meditation state. So then this mundane world does not
completely spoil our whole practices and then keep up the identity and the quality of the
practice. That's not the issue. Then this old technique is coming from the Buddha's
teaching is from the alaya. And alaya is that, where is this alaya? And alaya is that, or
mind, mind. And where is the mind? It is then, where is the mind? And then the Buddha said,
majority place is in the heart center and is the principal office, the brain. That's
what the Buddha said. So then that could be both, both. And the modern time they said
the brain and that is the majority office, brain is the major office. But mind is not
brain and brain is the powerhouse of the mind. And that's what the scientists said other
time. Last year I went to get snips of the sin. And there they are talking, all the scientists
said that the mind is not the stop, stop. And the brain is stop. I think S-T-U-F-F, I
think, stop. Mind is not the stop. Brain is stop. And the mind is even before this stop,
that's what really this is. Yeah, mind is even before this stop, that's what they said.